# Open source

## What is open source?

**Open source** is **source code** that is made *freely available* for possible *modification* and *redistribution*. Products include permission to use the source code, design documents, or content of the product. The **open-source model** is a decentralized [software development](/wiki/Software_development "Software development") model that encourages [open collaboration](/wiki/Open_collaboration). A main principle of [open-source software development](/wiki/Open-source_software_development "Open-source software development") is [peer production](/wiki/Peer_production "Peer production"), with products such as source code, [blueprints](/wiki/Blueprint "Blueprint"), and documentation freely available to the public. The [open-source movement](/wiki/Open-source_movement "Open-source movement") in software began as a response to the limitations of [proprietary code](/wiki/Proprietary_software "Proprietary software"). The model is used for projects such as in [open-source appropriate technology](/wiki/Open-source_appropriate_technology "Open-source appropriate technology"), and open-source drug discovery.

**Open source** is *source code that is made freely available for possible modification and redistribution. Products include permission to use the source code, design documents, or content of the product. The **open-source model** is a decentralized [software development](/wiki/Software_development "Software development") model that encourages [open collaboration](/wiki/Open_collaboration). A main principle of [open-source software development](/wiki/Open-source_software_development "Open-source software development") is [peer production](/wiki/Peer_production "Peer production"), with products such as source code, [blueprints](/wiki/Blueprint "Blueprint"), and documentation freely available to the public. The [open-source movement](/wiki/Open-source_movement "Open-source movement") in software began as a response to the limitations of [proprietary code](/wiki/Proprietary_software "Proprietary software"). The model is used for projects such as in [open-source appropriate technology](/wiki/Open-source_appropriate_technology "Open-source appropriate technology"), and open-source drug discovery.